---
layout: post
title:unix网络编程第一章
comments: true
category: summary
tags: [unix network programming ]
--- 

### introdunction and tcp/ip

1. while the tcp and ip protocols are normally part of the protocol stack within the kernel .

2. the client and server need not be attached to the same local area network(LAN).

3. we can use these wrapper functionsmost of the time to check for an error ,print an appropriate message ,and terminate when an error occurs. 

4. the socket function creates an internet stream socket,which is a fancy name for a tcp socket,the function returns a small integer descriptor that we can use to identify the socket 
in all future function call .

5. the connect function ,when applied to a tcp socket,establishes a tcp connection with the server specified by the socket address structure pointed to by the second argument.we must also specify 
the length of the socket address structure as the third argument to connect. 

6. exit terminates the program,unix always closes all open descriptors when a process terminates .

7. for wrapper function as socket 
```c++ 
    int 
    Socket(int family,int type,int protocol)
    {
        int n;
        if((n=socket(family,type,protocol))<0)
            err_sys("socket error");
        return n;
    } 
 ```

8. create a tcp socket ;bind server's well-known port to socket;convert socket to listening socket ;
accept client connection ,send reply;terminate connection;

9. our server handles only one client at a time,if multiple client connections arrive at about 
the same time,the kernel queues them ,up to some limit,and returns them to accept one at a time.

10. that is called an iterative server because it iterates through each client,one at time,there are numerous techniques for writing a concurrent server,one that handles multiple clients at the same time,the simplest technique for a concurrent server is to call the unix 
fork function,create one chuild process for each client ,other techniques are to use threads instead fork;

11. one way to find the ip address of many hosts on the local network is to ping the broadcast address.

12. the common programming model for existing 32-bit unix systems is called ILP32 model denoting 
that integers(I),long integers(L),and pointers(P) occupy 32bits,the model that is becomeing most prevalent for 64bit unix systems
is called the LP64 model,meaning only long integers(L),and pointers(P)require 64 bits. 



