---
layout: post
title: unix网络编程第二章
comments: true
category: summary
tags: [unix network programming ]
---

1. UDP is a simple,unrealiable datagram protocol,while TCP is a sophisticated,reliable byte-stream protocol.

2. we cover various topics in this chapter that fall into this category:TCP's threee-way hand cover various topics
in this chapter that fall into this category :tcp' three-way hand shake,tcp's connection termination sequence,and tcp's
TIME_WAIT state.

3. TCP :transmission control protocol ,tcp is a connection-oriented protocol that provide a reliable ,full duplex byte stream to its users ,
tcp sockets are an example of stream sockets,tcp takes care of details such as acknowledagements ,timeouts ,refransmissions,and the like.

4. UDP :user datagram protocol ,usp is a connectionless protocol ,and udp sockets are an example of datagram sockets,
there is no guarantee that usr datagrams ever reach their intended destionation.

5. each usp datagram has a length,the length of a datagram is passed to the receiveing application along with the data,we have already mentioned that
tcp is a byte-stream protocol ,without any record boundaries at all ,which differs from udp.

6. tcp provides connections between clients and servers,and also provides reliability,when tcp sends data to the other end ,it requires an acknowledgment in return,if 
an acknowledgment is not received,tcp automatically retransmits the data and waits a longer amount of time.
after some number of retransmissions ,tcp will give up,with the total amount of time spent trying to send data typically between 4 and 10 minutes(depending on the implementation)

7. tcp also sequences the data by associating a sequence number with every byte that it sends.if tcp receives duphcate data from its peer(say the peer thought a segments 
was lost and retransmitted it,when it wasn't really lost,the network was just overloaded),it can detect that the data has been duplicated(from the sequence numbers),and discard 
the duplicate data.

8. tcp provides flow control ,tcp always tells its peer exactly how many bytes of data it is 
willing to accept from the peer at any one time. the window is the amount of room currently available in the receive buffer .
guaranteeing that the sender cannot overflow the receive buffer.the window changes dynamically over time.as data received from the 
sender.the window size decreases,but as the receiving application reads data from the buffer,the window size increases.
it is possible for the window to be reach 0;when tcp's recevie buffer for a socket is full and it must wait for the application to read data from 
the buffer befor it can take any more data from the peer.

9. the following scenario occurs when a tcp connection is established.
    1). the server must be prepared to accept an incoming connetion,this is normally done by calling socket,bind,and listen,and 
    is called a passive open. 
    
    2). the client issues an active open by calling connect ,this causes the client tcp to send a 'syn'segment ,which tells the server the client's initial sequence number for the data that 
    the client will send on the connection will send on the connetion ,normally ,there is no data sent with the syn,it just contains an ip header,a tcp header,and possible tcp options.
    
    3). the server must acknowledge(ack) the client's syn and the sever must also send its own syn containing the initial sequence number for the data that the server will send on the connetion,the server sends its syn and the ack of the client's syn in a single segment . d

    4). the client must acknowledge the server's syn.

10. the acknowledgment number inan ack is the next expected sequence number for the end sending the ack,since a syn occupies one byte of the sequence number space,the acknowledgment number in the ack of each syn is the initial sequence number plus one.

11. an every analogy for establishing a tcp connection is the telephone system.
the socket function is the equivalent of having a telephone to use,bind is telling other people your phone number so that they can call you ,
listen is turning on the ringer so that you will hear when an incoming call arrives,connect requires that we konw the other person's number and dial it .
accept is when the person being called answers the phone,having the client's identity returned by accept

12. while it take three segment to establish a connection,it takes four to terminate a connection. 
    1). one application call close first ,and we say that this end performs the active close,this end's tcp sends a fin segment ,which menas it is finished sending data. 
    
    2). the other end that receives the fin performs the passive close,the received fin is acknowledged by tcp,the receipt of the fin is also passed to the application as an end-of-file,since the receive the fin means the application will not receive any additional data on the connection.

    3). sometime later,the application that received the end-of-file will close its socket ,this causes its tcp to send a fin.

    4). the tcp on the system that receives this final fin(the end that did the active close)acknowledges the fin.
13. a fin occupies one byte of sequence number sapace just like a n ,therefore,the ack of each fin is the sequence number of the fin plus one.

14. nevertheless,it is important to understand that many applications are built using udp because the application exchanges small amounts of data and udp avoids the overhead of tcp connection establishment and connection termination.

15. there are two reason for the TIME_WAIT state:1.to implement tcp's full-duplex connection termination reliably
2.to allow old duplicate segments to expire in the network.

16. at any given time .multiple processes can be using ay given transport:udp,tcp.all transport layers use 16-bit integer port number to differentiate between these processes.

17. the well-known port,the registered prots,the dynamic or private ports.

18. the socket pairfor a tcp connetion is the four tuple that defines the two endpoints of the connetion:the local ip address,local port foreign ip address,and foreign port.

19. with a concurent server,where the main server loop spawns a child to handle each new connetion.

20. the maximum size of an ipv4 datagram is 65535 bytes,including the ipv4 header.the maximum size of an ipv6 datagram is 65575,including 40 bytes ipv6 header.

21. many network have an mtc which can be dictated by the hardear,for example,the ethernet mtu is 1500bytes. other datalinks,such as point-to-point links using the point-to-point protocol have a configurable mtu,older slip links often used an mtu of 1006 or 296 byte.
the minimum link mtu for ipv4 is 68 bytes.
    

 
